So let's take about three or four
minutes and add another function here.
So the function is going
to be describeGroup.
And in the describeGroup function,
I'd like the sentence
to say something like,
this user group has 19 users,
the newest user is Joe Smith.
Accepting New users is true or false.
So based on this sentence and the shape of
our group struct, create a function that's
similar to our described user that
prints out the appropriate string.
So to start with, let's create
a function called describeGroup,
that takes a group struct as
an argument and returns a string.
Within this function, we're going to
create a describe variable to return at
the end of our function and set that
to a similar Sprintf formatted string.
And within here, if we're building
the string that's on line 25,
we want that to say, this user
group has x amount of users, so %d.
The newest user is a first name, and
a last name, both of which are strings.
And accepting new users will
be set to a boolean with %d.
Then the three arguments that
are going to provide values for
each of those string verbs will be g.
The first one we're trying to calculate
here is the number of users in the group.
And to do that,
we need to get all of the users,
so g.users and
then find the length since it's a slice.
So we'll call len on g.users.
The second verb is going to be the first
and last name of the newest user.
And so to access that,
if we look at our group struct,
our newest user is a user type.
And on our user type, we have a First and
Last name with capital F and L.
So down here we're going to say,
our g.newestUser.FirstName, and
then g.newestUser.LastName.
And then our last verb here
is going to be whether or
not there's space available, so
we can say g.spaceAvailable,
which will return true or false based
on our struct definition up here.
So now that we have both our describeUser
and describeGroup functions ready to go,
let's go and
print those out down in our main function,
make sure everything looks all right.
Additionally, because we're returning
a string and our describeGroup function,
I forgot to make sure we return that
at the end of our function here.
So I'm going to add return desc for
description.
And this guy at the end
here should be person t,
my apologies, person t for boolean.
Cool, so
hopping back to our main function.
Let's create an instance of our group.
So I'm going to set the variable
g to a group struct.
And within here we have
a few different attributes.
The first is a role,
let's call this guy admin.
Users is going to be a slice
of user structs, and
then within the curly braces we can
throw in a couple initial values.
Right now we just have one user on
line 33, let's copy this guy and
make a second one to add to our array,
I'm gonna call it u2.
Let's update the user ID to be 2,
and then modify some of
the values For some mock data.
Cool, and so within our user slice here,
I'm going to pass in u and
u2 to instantiate our user
slice with two users.
For our newest user attribute,
I'm just going to use the u2 variable.
And then spaceAvailable, for
now let's set that to true.
Cool, underneath this, I just want to
print some of these things to the console.
So I'm going to Println.
DescribeUser and pass it our first user,
so just that u variable.
And then for a second one,
let's call the describeGroup function and
pass it g for group.
For clarity, I'm going to kill
these last two Printlns and
then in the terminal,
let's execute the go run command, and
navigate into section six,
code/structs.go.
So you'll see that both of these
descriptions are now printing to
the console, having interpolated all of
the variables the way they should be.